[docs] Improve Reanimated Swipeable documentation. (#3121)
software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler: docs/docs/components/reanimated_swipeable.md

### `friction`

a number that specifies how much the visual interaction will be delayed compared to the gesture distance.

> e.g. value of 1 will indicate that the swipeable panel should exactly follow the gesture, 2 means it is going to be two times "slower".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
e.g. value of `1` will indicate that the swipeable panel should exactly follow the gesture, `2` means it is going to be two times "slower".
```

Author: fixed in [65d1a2b](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/65d1a2bca527024bbd00c90b198b993f61619f6b)

### `overshootFriction`

a number that specifies how much the visual interaction will be delayed compared to the gesture distance at overshoot. Default value is 1, it mean no friction, for a native feel, try 8 or above.

### `onSwipeableOpen`

a function that is called when `swipeable` is opened (either right or left).
Receives swipe direction as an argument.

### `onSwipeableClose`

a function that is called when `swipeable` is closed.
Receives swipe direction as an argument.

### `onSwipeableWillOpen`

a function that is called when `swipeable` starts animating on open (either right or left).
Receives swipe direction as an argument.

### `onSwipeableWillClose`

a function that is called when `swipeable` starts animating on close.
Receives swipe direction as an argument.

### `renderLeftActions`

a function that returns a component which will be rendered under the swipeable after swiping it to the right.
The function receives the following arguments:

- `progress` - a `SharedValue` representing swiping progress relative to the width of the returned element.

>   - Equals `0` when `swipeable` is closed, `1` when `swipeable` is open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Equals `0` when `swipeable` is closed, `1` when `swipeable` is opened.
```

WDYT about passive voice?

Author: Sounds good, will apply it shortly.

Author: Fixed in [b93ec82](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/b93ec82ccd6883768b258354fdf36bb33d42bdb2)

### `renderLeftActions`

> accepts a function which receives the following arguments:

Reviewer: a function that returns a component that is going to be rendered under `swipeable` after swiping to the right. The function receives the following arguments:

Reviewer: We think that _**under**_ fits better in that case

Author: Makes sense, done: [e37a656](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/e37a6568d2f6d939cd873bec95a7d103980d8f12)

> - `progress` value representing swiping progress relative to the width of the returned element.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `progress` - a shared value representing the swiping progress relative to the width of the returned element.
```

a tiny grammar change

Author: >shared value

Wouldn't `SharedValue` work better?

> the

Not sure if it's neccessary, the element it's refferring to is already unique ("the returned element"), and i don't think `progress` is a unique thing itself, as one swipeable has left action `progress`, and right action `progress`. 

> `  `

The double spaces are intentional, they ensure a line break.
While i think `\` would be clearer, it unfortunately doesn't work with our current setup.

Reviewer: > Wouldn't `SharedValue` work better?

I think that both are fine, `SharedValue` is more straightforward.

> Not sure if it's necessary, the element its referring to is already unique (...)

It is not referring to the element itself. Also I believe we can keep it.

> The double spaces are intentional, they ensure a line break.

What about making it a sub-bullet instead?

Author: > I think that both are fine, SharedValue is more straightforward.

Alright
>It is not referring to the element itself. Also I believe we can keep it.

Alright

>What about making it a sub-bullet instead?

Is this what you meant?

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/88ff41a3-db44-4920-b8fc-3a2f56f16063)

Reviewer: I thought about 2 sub-bullets (2 last sentences)

Author: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3d14fb6f-9e8b-497a-ad3e-242a914a3323)

Reviewer: That's better. We just have to make adjustments from other comments 😅

Author: >That's better. We just have to make adjustments from other comments 😅

I think the current version ([9845471](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/9845471eab4539a1a6d9f4164ab3483a159b296e)) has all the adjustments that were requested.

>   Equals `0` when `swipeable` is closed, `1` when left action is open.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Equals `0` when `swipeable` is closed, `1` when `swipeable` is open.  
```

Author: `swipeable` cannot be open, either the `left action` is open, or the `right action` can be open.

Reviewer: > `swipeable` cannot be open

Why is that? For example, it has `onSwipeableWillOpen` and `onSwipeableOpen` props. What I would change here is I'd use passive voice, i.e.:

```suggestion
Equals `0` when `swipeable` is closed, `1` when `swipeable` is opened. 
```

Author: `onSwipeableWillOpen` distinguishes between `swipeable` opening it's left and right `element`.
Here, the distinction of which side is open is equally necessary.

What about something like this?

> Equals `0` when `swipeable` is closed, `1` when `swipeable` has its left `element` open.

or

> Equals `0` when `swipeable` is closed, `1` when the left `element` is open.

---

`element` could be replaced with `action`, but I think you mentioned you'd prefer to avoid `action` [here](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121#discussion_r1782573527), was that a context-specific preference or a general rule?

Reviewer 2: > Here, the distinction of which side is open is equally necessary.

Isn't it implied by the fact that we're in `renderLeftActions` section?

Reviewer: > `onSwipeableWillOpen` distinguishes between `swipeable` opening it's left and right element.

Yes it does, but the name indicates that `Swipeable` itself will be opened.  Why can't you say that it is _**opened**_ if you can say that it is _**closed**_? 

>`element` could be replaced with `action`

I think the best we could replace it with would be `action panel`, as in `tsdocs`. But still, I believe that `Swipeable` fits better here. (cc @j-piasecki, @kacperkapusciak)

Author: I agree, if we want to avoid using terms like left/right action, since these are already implied by the function name, then standalone `swipeable` definitely fits best.

Fixed in [df0ff8c](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/df0ff8cb7be3b0c651b048dced53ffa8b4731b42) throughout [9845471](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/9845471eab4539a1a6d9f4164ab3483a159b296e)

>   Linearly increases to `Infinity` as left action overshoots it's open position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an element overshoots the opened position the value tends towards `Infinity`. Goes back to `1` when `swipeable` is released. 
```

Author: I think the second sentence is a good addition: ```Goes back to `1` when `swipeable` is released.```.
But for the first one, i think the original works a bit better, it's shorter and i think the wording it uses is a bit clearer

Perhaps the following would work better?
>  As left action `progress` overshoots it's open position, the value linearly increases to `Infinity`.
>  Reverts to `1` when `swipeable` is released.

Reviewer: We wanted to make it as close to natural sentence as possible. Also we'd like to avoid `left action`, that's why we used `element`

Author: >We wanted to make it as close to natural sentence as possible. Also we'd like to avoid left action, that's why we used element

I believe this is resolved [here](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121#discussion_r1782999151)

Author: >Am I missing something, or the only thing that has changed is left action?

I'm not sure which PR you're referencing, in [df0ff8c](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/df0ff8cb7be3b0c651b048dced53ffa8b4731b42) both left and right got replaced.

Are you talking about some PR between [df0ff8c](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/df0ff8cb7be3b0c651b048dced53ffa8b4731b42) and [9845471](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/9845471eab4539a1a6d9f4164ab3483a159b296e)?

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e2162e08-e4c9-4fa0-90a6-21a6e5bf248a)

Author: fixed in [620e247](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/620e247aa4a312d1b649bafe665060594341214f)

> - `translation` horizontal translation of `swipeable` in pixels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `translation` horizontal translation of the `swipeable` in pixels.
```

Author: fixed in [6f68b59](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/6f68b5904f65ca9d81bbca4a8eb8e8d19f070f24)

> - `translation` horizontal translation of the `swipeable` in pixels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `translation` - a horizontal offset from the starting position.
```

Author: i would keep the `in pixels`, is that ok?

Author: Also, while `translation` implicitly suggests a global change, i think `offset` might sound like the change is relative to the action, so would maybe the following work better?
>- `translation` - a horizontal offset of the `swipeable` relative to it's closed position.

Reviewer: Sounds good

Reviewer 2: Is it in pixels? I think it will be in the scaled units (DIP on Android and Points on iOS) that take screen density into consideration

Reviewer 2: I think we can use that if you want to keep the unit

Author: Alright, this is how it currently looks like, and i think it can remain that way, `offset` already implies `DIPs`:

>- `translation` - a horizontal offset of the `swipeable` relative to its closed position

> - `swipeable` provides an object exposing the methods listed [here](#methods)

Reviewer: I believe this shouldn't be here in the bullet points of `renderLeftAction` at all

Author: are you referring to the following?
>- `swipeable` provides an object exposing the methods listed [here](#methods)

If that's the case, it **should** be, it's a reference to the `swipeable` object.

Do you think something like `swipeableReference` or `swipeableMethods` or `swipeableObject` works better?
I think standalone `swipeable` makes the most sense, but i'm not sure if it's the as verbose as the other options.

(cc @kacperkapusciak )

Reviewer: Okay, now I see. I don't like `swipeable` in that case (even though it could be okay with old implementation). I'd go with either `swipeableRef` or `swipeableMethods` (preferably `swipeableMethods`)

Author: changed to `swipeableMethods` in [6cdf23b](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/6cdf23b6963f35202c0b65225e38e3839fe83c96)

This function must return a `ReactNode`.

To support `rtl` flexbox layouts use `flexDirection` styling.

### `renderRightActions`

accepts a function which receives the following arguments:

- `progress` value representing swiping progress relative to the width of the returned element.  
  Equals `0` when `swipeable` is closed, `1` when right action is open.  
  Linearly increases to `Infinity` as right action overshoots it's open position.

> - `translation` horizontal translation of `swipeable` in pixels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `translation` horizontal translation of the `swipeable` in pixels.
```

Author: fixed in [6f68b59](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/pull/3121/commits/6f68b5904f65ca9d81bbca4a8eb8e8d19f070f24)

### `enableTrackpadTwoFingerGesture` (iOS only)

Enables two-finger gestures on supported devices, for example iPads with trackpads.

> If not enabled the gesture will require click + drag, with enableTrackpadTwoFingerGesture swiping with two fingers will also trigger the gesture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not enabled the gesture will require click + drag, with `enableTrackpadTwoFingerGesture` swiping with two fingers will also trigger the gesture.
```

Author: same
